README.md, before:

<h1 align=center >VTFK Logger</h1>
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/vtfk/node-shared-logger/Tests?label=Tests&style=for-the-badge"/><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/vtfk/node-shared-logger/Publish?label=Publish&style=for-the-badge"/><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@vtfk/logger?style=for-the-badge&color=success"/><img alt="Coveralls github branch" src="https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/vtfk/node-shared-logger/master?style=for-the-badge">
</div>
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/vtfk/node-shared-logger"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=github&label=&message=GITHUB&color=black&style=for-the-badge"/></a><a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vtfk/logger"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=npm&label=&message=NPM&color=red&style=for-the-badge"/></a>
</div>

<br>
<p align=center >A simple syslog logger for node applications. Logs to console, remote syslog aggregator and Azure Function.</p>
<br>

## Installation

`npm install --save @vtfk/logger`

## Usage

## Config
All options are optional. Logging to a remote syslog aggregator can be configured in `logConfig()` or as env variables.

> Note: `logConfig()` can be called multiple times to update the config throughout the program.  
  And it will keep the previous config parameter if not specified in the next call.

```js
const options = {
  remote: {                     // Options for remote logging. If undefined; disables remote logging
    disabled: false,            // If true; disables logging to remote, even if remote config is set
    onlyInProd: true,           // If true; only log to remote aggregator when NODE_ENV === 'production'
    host: '',                   // Hostname for the remote aggregator
    port: '',                   // Port for the remote aggregator
    serviceHostname: '',        // The identificator of this service
    serviceAppname: 'default:'  // The identificator of this application (defaults to "default:" for consistency with Winston)
  },
  azure: {                      // Options for Azure
    context: context,           // The context object received from an Azure Function (see example further down)
    excludeInvocationId: false  // If true; do not append the invocationId from the context object
  },
  prefix: '',                   // A string that will be added in front of each log message (ex. UID for each run)
  suffix: '',                   // A string that will be added at the end of each log message
  localLogger: console.log      // Replace the local logger with a custom function (Default: console.log)
}

logConfig(options)
```


### ENV Variables
```
PAPERTRAIL_HOST = papertrail.example.com
PAPERTRAIL_PORT = 5050
PAPERTRAIL_HOSTNAME = Cool-app
```
`logConfig()` options take priority.

### Examples
#### Ex. Basic
The least amount of code to log to console or a remote syslog aggregator (if options are set in enviroment variables)
```js
const { logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')

logger('info', ['test', 'message'])
```

#### Ex. Basic with preifx
Use logConfig to display a UID infront of each message
```js
const { logConfig, logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')
const nanoid = require('nanoid')

logConfig({
  prefix: nanoid()
})

logger('info', ['test', 'message'])

logger('warn', ['another', 'action'])

// OUTPUT 
// NAME-OF-APP and VER-OF-APP is the value of "name" and "version" in your package.json
[ 2019-05-19 15:41:17 ] < INFO >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: V01k3pDpHCBkAHPyCvOOl - test - message
[ 2019-05-19 15:41:17 ] < WARN >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: V01k3pDpHCBkAHPyCvOOl - another - action
```

#### Ex. Logging to remote
Configuration of remote options in the `logConfig()` function
```js
const { logConfig, logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')

// logConfig() is optional
logConfig({
  remote: {
    onlyInProd: true,
    host: 'papertrail.example.com',
    port: 5050,
    serviceHostname: 'my-server-name'
  }
  prefix: 'prefixedValue',
  suffix: 'suffixedValue'
})

logger('info', ['test', 'message'])

const error = Error('Error in process')
logger('error', ['Error in app', error])

// OUTPUT
// NAME-OF-APP and VER-OF-APP is the value of "name" and "version" in your package.json
[ 2019-05-19 15:13:35 ] < INFO >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: prefixedValue - test - message - suffixedValue
[ 2019-05-19 15:13:35 ] < ERROR >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: prefixedValue - Error in app - Error: Error in process - suffixedValue
```

#### Ex. Azure Function
Pass the `context` object from Azure Function to add a ìnvocationId and use `context.log[level](message)`.
> Note: If the `context` object contains all log functions (`context.log[levels]`) then it will log using these instead of `options.localLogger`
```js
const { logConfig, logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')

module.exports = async function (context, req) {
  logConfig({
      azure: { context }, // Pass in the context. (Shorthand for 'azure: { context: context }' )
      prefix: 'kittens'
  })
  logger('error', ['are too cute!'])
  logger('warn', ['can scratch'])
  logConfig({ azure: { excludeInvocationId: true } }) // Exclude the invocationId from now on
  logger('info', ['are cats'])

  context.res.body = '200 OK'
}

// OUTPUT 
// NAME-OF-APP and VER-OF-APP is the value of "name" and "version" in your package.json
[2020-11-19T11:47:43.735Z] {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: 786df5ec-e19b-4f94-a65f-b86eed8df405 - kittens - are too cute!
[2020-11-19T11:47:43.737Z] {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: 786df5ec-e19b-4f94-a65f-b86eed8df405 - kittens - can scratch
[2020-11-19T11:47:43.737Z] {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: kittens - are cats // invocationId is now excluded
```

## Logging
Remote logging is only enabled in a production enviroment (`NODE_ENV === 'production'`), unless `options.remote.onlyInProd === false`.

# License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

remote.disabled had no effect

README.md, after:

<h1 align=center >VTFK Logger</h1>
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/vtfk/node-shared-logger/Tests?label=Tests&style=for-the-badge"/><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/vtfk/node-shared-logger/Publish?label=Publish&style=for-the-badge"/><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@vtfk/logger?style=for-the-badge&color=success"/><img alt="Coveralls github branch" src="https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/vtfk/node-shared-logger/master?style=for-the-badge">
</div>
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/vtfk/node-shared-logger"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=github&label=&message=GITHUB&color=black&style=for-the-badge"/></a><a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vtfk/logger"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=npm&label=&message=NPM&color=red&style=for-the-badge"/></a>
</div>

<br>
<p align=center >A simple syslog logger for node applications. Logs to console, remote syslog aggregator and Azure Function.</p>
<br>

## Installation

`npm install --save @vtfk/logger`

## Usage

## Config
All options are optional. Logging to a remote syslog aggregator can be configured in `logConfig()` or as env variables.

> Note: `logConfig()` can be called multiple times to update the config throughout the program.  
  And it will keep the previous config parameter if not specified in the next call.

```js
const options = {
  remote: {                     // Options for remote logging. If undefined; disables remote logging
    disabled: false,            // If true; disables logging to remote, even if remote config is set
    onlyInProd: true,           // If true; only log to remote aggregator when NODE_ENV === 'production'
    host: '',                   // Hostname for the remote aggregator
    port: '',                   // Port for the remote aggregator
    serviceHostname: '',        // The identificator of this service
    serviceAppname: 'default:'  // The identificator of this application (defaults to "default:" for consistency with Winston)
  },
  azure: {                      // Options for Azure
    context: context,           // The context object received from an Azure Function (see example further down)
    excludeInvocationId: false  // If true; do not append the invocationId from the context object
  },
  prefix: '',                   // A string that will be added in front of each log message (ex. UID for each run)
  suffix: '',                   // A string that will be added at the end of each log message
  localLogger: console.log      // Replace the local logger with a custom function (Default: console.log)
}

logConfig(options)
```


### ENV Variables
```
PAPERTRAIL_HOST = papertrail.example.com
PAPERTRAIL_PORT = 5050
PAPERTRAIL_HOSTNAME = Cool-app
```
`logConfig()` options take priority.

### Examples
#### Ex. Basic
The least amount of code to log to console or a remote syslog aggregator (if options are set in enviroment variables)
```js
const { logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')

logger('info', ['test', 'message'])
```

#### Ex. Basic with preifx
Use logConfig to display a UID infront of each message
```js
const { logConfig, logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')
const nanoid = require('nanoid')

logConfig({
  prefix: nanoid()
})

logger('info', ['test', 'message'])

logger('warn', ['another', 'action'])

// OUTPUT 
// NAME-OF-APP and VER-OF-APP is the value of "name" and "version" in your package.json
[ 2019-05-19 15:41:17 ] < INFO >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: V01k3pDpHCBkAHPyCvOOl - test - message
[ 2019-05-19 15:41:17 ] < WARN >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: V01k3pDpHCBkAHPyCvOOl - another - action
```

#### Ex. Logging to remote
Configuration of remote options in the `logConfig()` function
```js
const { logConfig, logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')

// logConfig() is optional
logConfig({
  remote: {
    onlyInProd: true,
    host: 'papertrail.example.com',
    port: 5050,
    serviceHostname: 'my-server-name'
  }
  prefix: 'prefixedValue',
  suffix: 'suffixedValue'
})

logger('info', ['test', 'message'])

const error = Error('Error in process')
logger('error', ['Error in app', error])

// OUTPUT
// NAME-OF-APP and VER-OF-APP is the value of "name" and "version" in your package.json
[ 2019-05-19 15:13:35 ] < INFO >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: prefixedValue - test - message - suffixedValue
[ 2019-05-19 15:13:35 ] < ERROR >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: prefixedValue - Error in app - Error: Error in process - suffixedValue
```

#### Ex. Disable logging to remote
Configuration of remote options in the `logConfig()` function
```js
const { logConfig, logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')

// logConfig() is optional
logConfig({
  remote: {
    disabled: true,
    onlyInProd: true,
    host: 'papertrail.example.com',
    port: 5050,
    serviceHostname: 'my-server-name'
  }
  prefix: 'prefixedValue',
  suffix: 'suffixedValue'
})

logger('info', ['test', 'message'])

const error = Error('Error in process')
logger('error', ['Error in app', error])

// OUTPUT
// NAME-OF-APP and VER-OF-APP is the value of "name" and "version" in your package.json
[ 2019-05-19 15:13:35 ] < INFO >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: prefixedValue - test - message - suffixedValue
[ 2019-05-19 15:13:35 ] < ERROR >  {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: prefixedValue - Error in app - Error: Error in process - suffixedValue
```

#### Ex. Azure Function
Pass the `context` object from Azure Function to add a ìnvocationId and use `context.log[level](message)`.
> Note: If the `context` object contains all log functions (`context.log[levels]`) then it will log using these instead of `options.localLogger`
```js
const { logConfig, logger } = require('@vtfk/logger')

module.exports = async function (context, req) {
  logConfig({
      azure: { context }, // Pass in the context. (Shorthand for 'azure: { context: context }' )
      prefix: 'kittens'
  })
  logger('error', ['are too cute!'])
  logger('warn', ['can scratch'])
  logConfig({ azure: { excludeInvocationId: true } }) // Exclude the invocationId from now on
  logger('info', ['are cats'])

  context.res.body = '200 OK'
}

// OUTPUT 
// NAME-OF-APP and VER-OF-APP is the value of "name" and "version" in your package.json
[2020-11-19T11:47:43.735Z] {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: 786df5ec-e19b-4f94-a65f-b86eed8df405 - kittens - are too cute!
[2020-11-19T11:47:43.737Z] {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: 786df5ec-e19b-4f94-a65f-b86eed8df405 - kittens - can scratch
[2020-11-19T11:47:43.737Z] {NAME-OF-APP} - {VER-OF-APP}: kittens - are cats // invocationId is now excluded
```

## Logging
Remote logging is only enabled in a production enviroment (`NODE_ENV === 'production'`), unless `options.remote.onlyInProd === false`.

# License

[MIT](LICENSE)
